# create views . 

we all reday see edit view - form views. 

django.views.generic.edit import CreateView

a view that display a form for creating an object redisplying the form with with validation error (if there are any ) and saving the object . 

inherit this clsess : - 

 detial - single objecttemplateresponsemixin 

base - basecreateview
edit - modelformmixin
edit - formmixin
edit - modelformmixin
detail - singleobjectmixin 
edit - processformview
base - view 



----------create view  attribute -----------------

template_name_suffix - the createview page display to a get request uses template_name_suffix of _form 

object - when using createview you have access to self.object ehich is the object which is the object beign create if the object has't been created yet the value will be none . 

-------------modelFormmixin ---------------

a form mixin works on ModelForm rether than a standalone rather than a standalone form 

Since this is a subclass of single object mixing instant objects mixing have access to the model and query set attribute describing the type of object that the model form is manipulating.

If you specify both  the fields  and form under _class attribute and improperly configuration acceptance will be raised.



attribute : - 

 model - A model class can be explicitly provide otherwise will be determined by examining self dot object or query set.

 fields - A list of names of failed this is interpreted the same way as a metadata fields attribute of modelform. 

 This is required attribute if you are generating the form class and score automatically example using model omitting the attribute will result in an improper configuration exception.

 success_url - The U R L to redirect to when the former successfully proceeded

 successful _url may contain dictionary string formatting which will be interpolating against object field attribute for example you could use success _Yuval is equal topoll slug to redirect to an url compost out of the slug field and on a model.



 methods : -

 get_form_class() - retrieve the form class to instantiate if form _class is provided the class will be used otherwise will be instantiated  using the model associate with the querieset or with the model depending on which attributes provide.

 get_form_kwargs() - Add the current instance self object to the standard get _form _key WARGS()

 get_sucess_url() - Determine the URL to redirect to when the form is successfully validate return jango .view.genek.ata.model form mixin.success unders _url if it is provided otherwise attempt to use the get _absolute _url() of the objects . 


 form_valid(form) - safe the form instance set the current object for the views and redirect to get _success _URL()

 form_invalid(form) - Rendered response providing the invalid form as context .

 

 



